How would you say I want to carry on?
Now you think carry on?
I don't know this.
So one of the skills we want to really make use of these convertible words is to find the Latin equivalent
of carry-on.
I want to carry on, I want to go on, I want to what is the Latin word that we could use here?
Nothing comes to mind?
Blank.
So think of ah continue.
Ah.
So you can think of a shun word that has something to do with carrying on.
Continuation.
Exactly.
Good.
So I want to continue.
Quiero continuar.
I want to continue it.
Quiero continuarlo.
Good.
I'm trying to continue.
I've already forgotten what trying is.
So it's not about remembering, it's about knowing how to find it.
So there are a few things you could think about that when we discussed this word that could lead you back to it.
And the important thing is to
Take that time to have those thoughts rather than just, oh, do I know it, do I not?
Intención.
Intention.
There wasn't a rule here because it doesn't finish Asian.
Our rule was for once it finished Asian, but it was very similar.
Do you remember what it is now?
I try.
So it ends in O like.
Intento.
Good.
So let's I try.
We want to see first if we can find it.
relaxed not you know if your brain locks on do I remember it or don't I game over but if you go okay what was that related to what was that about and just see what pops up then you're much more likely to get it so intento intento is I try
I try or I'm trying to continue.
Intento continuar.
Good.
What is a demonstracion?
Demonstration.
Did you notice something different though?
There's some change here.
Demostracion.
There's no N.
Good.
Demostracion.
So how would you say to demonstrate?
Demostrar.
Now, if you get rid of that de, how would it sound?
Mostrar.
Mostrar, and that means to show.
To show.
Mostrar.
So we might think again, mostrar has no connection that we can hook on to.
But usually when we have a look, we can find some connection through English, Latin English that helps us interiorize mostrar to show.
The word for something is algo.
Algo.
A-L-G-O.
Good.
What was the word for you?
Like in I love you?
How was I love you?
Te quiero.
So it was te.
So how would you say I want to show you something?
In this order.
I want to show you something.
Quiero mostrarte algo.
What again was I go or I'm going and it was related to voyage, we said
Voy.
The beginning bit of voyage.
And you're mostly gonna hear it pronounced more like a soft B.
Boy.
Now, just as in English
We say I'm going to and we talk about the future.
I'm going to continue.
I'm going to eat later.
We can do exactly the same thing in Spanish.
The only difference is that even though, for example, if we use continue, continuar, continuar means to continue.
In Spanish we usually voy a continuar.
It's actually because voy is a verb of movement.
When we are putting a two form
A verb that is to something like continuar after a verb of movement, a verb that have some kind of motion in its in its meaning, like boy, I'm going.
Spanish wants to show this feeling of motion.
So you say I'm going to and you put the to for that movement, even if you're not actually moving and you're just using it to speak about the future.
So, if you want to say, for example, I'm going to confiscate it, I'm going to confiscate it
Voy a confiscar lo good.
Voy a confiscarlo.
Very good.
How do you say I'm going to examine it?
I'm going to examine it.
Good.
Boy a examinarlo.
Now we said law is it or him.
Now the plural of him is them.
This is not very obvious in English because him and them they look very different as words.
We don't ever think of them as the plural of him or of her, but it is.
It's very obvious in Spanish.
Lo means him or it, and if you want to get them, if you want to make it plural, what do you think you might do?
Just at the S.
Los.
Good.
So now we have the word for them.
To see is their.
We have a view in English like view ver.
So how would you say I want to see them
Quiero a verlos.
Why are here?
Quiero verlos.
So ver is to see.
If you say I'm going to see them, how is it going to be?
Voy a verlos.
Good.
But if you say I want to see them, quiero verlos.
And if you say I'm trying to see them.
Intento verlos.
Good.
Now ah.
Intento verlos.
Because ver is to see.
To try, so try in its two form.
To try is intentar.
Intentar.
This is to try.
So how would you say I want to try?
Quiero intentar.
Good.
I'm going to try.
Voy a intentar.
Good with a voy a intentar.
I'm going to try to see them.
Voy a intentar a verlos.
No.
Verlos.
Voy a intentar
Voy a intentar verlos.
Good.
Boy a intentar verlos.
Let me give you another example of a verb that connects with this a.
So boy isn't isolated.
We can understand the concept better.
if we see another verb of movement.
So another verb of movement is passar.
What do you think passar means?
What is it to pass?
Ah yes.
Passar is to pass and to pass by.
So I'm gonna pass by to visit you.
I'm going to pass by to visit you.
How would we say this?
So the first bit is I'm going.
Voy.
Good.
I'm going to pass by.
A passar.
Good.
To visit you.
Visitarlo.
Visitarte.
Well actually, lo other than him and it can also mean formal you.
So if you're speaking formally, you can use this la as well.
But I want to go back to Pasar.
Pasar is a verb of movement.
Let's take the sentence again from the beginning.
The whole sentence is I am going to pass by to visit you.
Voy a soit voy a pasar a visitarlo.
Good.
La if you are speaking informally or te if you are speaking informally.
Voy a pasar a visitarte.
which would mean him, it or you formal.
How would you say formal by the way in Spanish?
Formal.
And formally
Formalmente.
Very good.
Now, if you want to say I am going to try to pass by
to visit you we have to think which ones we're gonna use this are with and which ones not which is a great exercise for us to internalize this rule so I am going to try
Voy a intentar to pass by uh no voy a intentar passar to visit you
Very good.
So we learned that role.
Voy a intentar pasar a visitarte.
There's not many times that we have something between the verbs.
So there's not going to be a lot of rules like this, don't worry.
But this one's important because there are many important verbs of motion that we would be putting this out after.
How how was to demonstrate again?
Demonstrar.
And what happened to that N?
Ah, demonstrar.
Demostrar.
And what is to show?
You get rid of most and the word for something I mentioned was algo.
Alco.
Something.
I want to show you something.
Let's speak informally.
So we're gonna use te
Good.
I want to show you something.
Quiero mostrarte algo.
So maybe you call somebody and you say, like, where are you?
I'm at home.
Okay, I want to pass by.
to show you something.
I want to pass by to show you something.
Quiero pasar a what was it I want to to show you something
Mostrarte algo.
Good.
Quiero pasar a because we had a verb of movement.
Mostrarte algo.
So if we're connecting a verb of movement to another verb.
we connect using this this extra a too quiero pasar a most